docs/docs-summary.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: "Documentation Summary"
author: "Laura"
permalink: /docs/docs-summary/
---

# Symbiota Installation
Following instructions found at [Symbiota's documentation](symbiota.org/docs/installation-instructions/) and some trial and error, this is the step-by-step to install a Symbiota portal:
1. Prototype development started with [Symbiota version 1.0](https://github.com/Symbiota/Symbiota/releases) (cloned from Github 2018-05-11)
2. Created MySQL database
3. Added reader and writer users to database
4. Imported schema update files to database from /config/schema-1.0
5. Edited /config/dbconnection.php with database credentials
6. Edited /config/symbini.php with general configurations, had issues with relative paths - fixed (pay attention to *$CLIENT_ROOT* path)
7. Server admin granted user privileges
8. First empty portal successfully running!

# Data Input/Import

## Taxa
As per Symbiota documentation, the first step to establish a data portal is to import a general taxonomic thesaurus, so that specimens can be subsequently added to an existing taxonomic schema/tree.
For biological collections, higher level taxonomic trees have been imported from ITIS.
The Anthropology Museum curator has crafted a hierarchical classification of non-biological items, which has been imported into the general taxonomic thesaurus.
A similar solution is expected to be provided to the non-biological specimens belonging to the Geology Museum.
After a thesaurus is established, collection profiles can be generated and specimens then imported.

## Collections
Collections are taxa and museum-based, both for historical reasons and for purposes of easier data updating and organizing. For instance, the Herbarium has five different collections: Bryophytes, Vascular Plants, Lichens, Fungi, and Vascular Non-Wisconsin Plants.

## Specimens
Specimens are stored in Symbiota as occurrences. The main table containing specimen information is called *fmoccurrences*. 

# Front-End

## Base styles
Base styles are implemented using Foundation framework by ZURB. Templating in Symbiota does not follow other PHP guidelines, as the head will change according to the page you are visiting, therefore styles and scripts are page-specific. To work around this, Foundation's styles have been added to the css folder and renamed as such:
- foundation.css renamed to base.css
- app.css renamed to main.css
JavaScript will have to be added later for cross compatibility.

# Features

# Versioning and Backups
Local staging is version tracked with Git. There is a remote private repository at Bitbucket. Additional backups are scheduled frequently to a private folder. The production server is made available by the Math department (Fibonacci server). Databases are frequently backed up using phpMyAdmin.

Commit message:

updated docs summary to include data import

docs/docs-summary.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: "Documentation Summary"
author: "Laura"
permalink: /docs/docs-summary/
---

# Symbiota Installation
Following instructions found at [Symbiota's documentation](http://symbiota.org/docs/installation-instructions/) and some trial and error, this is the step-by-step to install a Symbiota portal:
1. Prototype development started with [Symbiota version 1.0](https://github.com/Symbiota/Symbiota/releases) (cloned from Github 2018-05-11)
2. Created MySQL database
3. Added reader and writer users to database
4. Imported schema update files to database from /config/schema-1.0
5. Edited /config/dbconnection.php with database credentials
6. Edited /config/symbini.php with general configurations, had issues with relative paths - fixed (pay attention to *$CLIENT_ROOT* path)
7. Server admin granted user privileges
8. First empty portal successfully running!

# Data Input/Import

## Taxa
As per Symbiota documentation, the first step to establish a data portal is to import a general taxonomic thesaurus, so that specimens can be subsequently added to an existing taxonomic schema/tree.
For biological collections, higher level taxonomic trees have been imported from ITIS.
The Anthropology Museum curator has crafted a hierarchical classification of non-biological items, which has been imported into the general taxonomic thesaurus.
A similar solution is expected to be provided to the non-biological specimens belonging to the Geology Museum.
After a thesaurus is established, collection profiles can be generated and specimens then imported.
Step-by-step guides are provided here:
- How to import a Taxonomic Thesaurus - **coming soon**
- How to import Vernaculars - **coming soon**
Further insights can be checked in the prototype development journal here:
- [Importing Existing Data: Herbarium](2018-07-13-importing-data-herbarium.md)
- [Importing Vernaculars](2018-07-20-importing-vernaculars.md)

## Collections
Collections are taxa and museum-based, both for historical reasons and for purposes of easier data updating and organizing. For instance, the Herbarium has five different collections: Bryophytes, Vascular Plants, Lichens, Fungi, and Vascular Non-Wisconsin Plants.

## Specimens
Specimens are stored in Symbiota as occurrences. The main table containing specimen information is called *fmoccurrences*. 

# Front-End

## Base styles
Base styles are implemented using Foundation framework by ZURB. Templating in Symbiota does not follow other PHP guidelines, as the head will change according to the page you are visiting, therefore styles and scripts are page-specific. To work around this, Foundation's styles have been added to the css folder and renamed as such:
- foundation.css renamed to base.css
- app.css renamed to main.css
JavaScript will have to be added later for cross compatibility.

# Features

# Versioning and Backups
Local staging is version tracked with Git. There is a remote private repository at Bitbucket. Additional backups are scheduled frequently to a private folder. The production server is made available by the Math department (Fibonacci server). Databases are frequently backed up using phpMyAdmin.
